# Java-CIS18A
creater Abanob Wahba,
Version 3.0,
created June 24, 2019,
Summary and instructions for the program,
The program is a Beauty Salon and spa Management program. The program will be used in the management level in the beauty salon and spa; that is, only the managers will be the one to operate the program. All the other staff are assumed to be the ones attending to the clients and the manager is the overall head.
The program will serve various purposes such as keeping records of all the employees both in part time basis and in full time basis. All the employees are paid depending on the hours worked. This brought about inheritance because we had the super-class which is an `Employee` class then the sub-classes which were the `fullTimeEmployee` class and the `partTimeEmployee` class. The program stores these records in `ArrayList` so that later the manager can use the information stored in the program to make decisions that will help to improve the business performance. 
The program will also allow that manager to add the various services offered in the beauty and define the prices of a given service according to age of the customers. The program splits a service into two i.e. underage clients and the adult’s clients where they will have different prices. When a customer is to be services, his/her age and name is taken then the program itself will decide the category of cost that the client will fall into and save the record for later reference. The programs categorize the client that are below the age of 18 as underage and those that have 18 years and above are categorized as adults. Here in the services we have the implementation of an interface which has the blueprint of how each service should be. It majorly has a method `calculatePrice` which calculates the price of the service.
Since the beauty salon pays employees depending on the number of hours worked, the full time employees have a fixed number of working hours and therefore their pay will always be constant but for the part time employees, the manager will have to record the number of hours he/she has worked. The recorded hours will help later in deciding what amount of salary that the employee will be paid.
The program produces report of all the clients served including details such as their name, service that they were offered and the amount of money that they paid for that service, all the full time employees plus the amount of salary that they should be paid and also the part time employees and the amount of salary that they should be paid. The report is produced by looping through that `Arraylist` that was created when the program was beginning and filled with record when the user adds a client into the program.
The program runs in a command line interface and the user of the program will have to perform action by selecting options. The initial menu items are held in a string array and looping is used to display the options in the screen.  The program uses a range base loop to Display the options in the screen. The user of the program will have to enter the option and press enter then the next menu with the relevant instruction will appear. The program will use if statement or the switch statement to validate which action to perform according to the user input i.e. some menus have been implemented using if statement and some using switch statement. The user should follow the instruction so that the program should function without errors.
